{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s17\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 header;}{\s19\widctlpar\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 footnote text;}{\s20\widctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 
LinguistNY;}{\s21\ri-540\widctlpar\tx900\tx1340\tx1620\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 data1;}{\s22\ri-540\widctlpar\tx260\tx900\tx1160\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 data2;}{\s23\ri-540\widctlpar\tx1080\tx1520\tx1800\adjustright \cgrid 
\sbasedon21 \snext23 data3;}{\s24\ri-720\widctlpar\tx360\tx540\tx620\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1160\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon19 \snext24 fndata;}{\s25\qj\sl480\slmult0\widctlpar\tx540\tx800\tx1160\adjustright \cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext25 text;}{\s26\qj\sl480\slmult0\widctlpar\tx540\tx800\tx1160\adjustright \expnd7\expndtw35\cgrid \sbasedon25 \snext26 text-1.75;}{\s27\widctlpar\tx260\tx720\tx980\adjustright \expnd7\expndtw35\cgrid \sbasedon22 \snext27 data2-exp;}{
\s28\widctlpar\tx260\tx1080\tx1340\tx1620\adjustright \expnd7\expndtw35\cgrid \sbasedon27 \snext28 data1-exp;}{\s29\widctlpar\tx540\adjustright \expnd7\expndtw35\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext29 text-exp;}{\s30\widctlpar
\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\tx2340\tx2520\tx2700\tx2880\tx3060\tx3240\tx3420\tx3600\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon21 \snext30 data;}{\s31\qj\widctlpar
\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\tx2340\tx2520\tx2700\tx2880\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon25 \snext31 textx;}{\s32\fi-283\li283\ri-360\nowidctlpar
\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\tx2340\tx2520\tx2700\tx2880\adjustright \f4\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext32 \sautoupd List Bullet;}{\s33\li283\sa120\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext33 List Number 5;}{
\s34\fi-1260\li1620\sb200\sl480\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx980\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext34 first ex;}{\s35\li720\sl480\slmult0\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx1440\tqc\tx1980\tqc\tx2700\tqc\tx3330\tqc\tx3960\tqc\tx4590\tqc\tx5220\tqc\tx5940\tqc\tx6660\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext35 givenness;}{\s36\fi-283\li566\nowidctlpar\adjustright \cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext36 \sautoupd List Bullet 3;}{\*
\cs37 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s38\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 p1a;}{\s39\qj\fi-360\li360\sa120\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext39 References;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-47680286
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-132}{\list\listtemplateid1477739574\listsimple{\listlevel
\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-126}{\list\listtemplateid-764508218\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-119}{\list\listtemplateid-223591860\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat3\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'03(\'00);}{\levelnumbers\'02;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid999310166}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid-126
\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid-132\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid999310166\listoverridecount0\ls4}}{\info{\title ASDD}{\author ILASLL}{\operator Michael Hegarty}{\creatim\yr2003\mo12\dy15\hr14\min45}
{\revtim\yr2003\mo12\dy15\hr14\min45}{\printim\yr2001\mo11\dy13\hr16\min22}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords1131}{\nofchars6447}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws7917}{\vern113}}\paperw11909\paperh16834\margl1411\margr1411\margt1411\margb1411 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\formshade\fracwidth\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd 
\psz9\linex0\headery1008\footery1008\endnhere\titlepg\pgbrdropt32\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s18\qr\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpg\phpg\posx11663\posy0\absw576\adjustright \cgrid {\field{\*\fldinst {page  }}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 2}}}{
\par }\pard \s18\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {\fs22 \tab \tab }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs37\fs22  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\cs37\fs22\lang1024 2}}}{\fs22 
\par }}{\footer \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \cgrid {\fs22 \tab 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s31\qc\ri86\widctlpar
\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\tx2340\tx2520\tx2700\tx2880\adjustright \cgrid {\b The Semantic Types of Propositions, Facts, and Events
\par }\pard \s31\qj\ri86\widctlpar\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\tx2340\tx2520\tx2700\tx2880\adjustright {
\par }\pard\plain \s19\ri86\widctlpar\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\adjustright \cgrid {\b Overview.}{
 Clauses denoting propositions and facts share a suite of semantic properties. These implicate a higher semantic type for clausally-introduced propositions and facts than for their counterpart
s introduced by nominals, which are of type e. Clauses denoting events do not share the semantic properties at issue, so clausally introduced events are also of type e, the type of ordinary individuals. The present talk reviews the evidence for these clai
m
s and concludes that events do not have the properties of algebraic combination of propositions and facts. Instead, events have the mereological structure of ordinary singular individuals, dependent upon specialized modes of combination and causal interac
tions among parts. Differences in event structure among activities, accomplishments and achievements are thus grounded not in general algebraic properties of an event domain, but in specialized relations among events and event parts.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s31\ri86\widctlpar\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\tx2340\tx2520\tx2700\tx2880\adjustright \cgrid {\tab \tab When propositions and
 facts are introduced into a discourse by a clause, they are more readily accessible to immediate anaphoric reference with demonstrative pronouns and demonstrative noun phrases, than they are to reference with personal pronouns such as }{\i it}{
; see Webber (1988
, 1991), Gundel, Hedberg and Zacharski (1993), Borthen, Fretheim and Gundel (1997), Gundel, Borthen and Fretheim (1999), and Hegarty, Gundel and Borthen (2002), among others. In contrast, propositions and facts introduced by a nominal expression are rende
r
ed immediately accessible to reference with a personal pronoun. Recent literature (Hegarty 2003) shows that resistance to immediate anaphoric reference with a personal pronoun, described above, correlates with the possibility of coordination as a singular
 
sum. A coordination of clauses introducing propositions or facts can be interpreted as denoting a single, more complex, proposition or fact, supporting subsequent reference with a singular demonstrative pronoun or NP. (See Moltmann 1997.) But a coordinati
on of nominal expressions denoting propositions or facts can only be interpreted as a plural. A further parallel pattern is obtained in possibilities for a mass-quantifier interpretation of quantity adverbs. To illustrate, the adverb }{\i mostly}{
 in (1B) below can quantify over discourse-appropriate propositional content. 
\par (1)\tab \tab A:\tab What does Alex think about the university?
\par \tab \tab B:\tab Mostly, Alex believes that the university is too corporate.
\par \tab \tab B\rquote :\tab Mostly, Alex believes the proposition Jill believes.
\par }\pard\plain \ri86\widctlpar\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\adjustright \cgrid {Putting aside the extraneous interpretation in which }{\i mostly}{ modifies the degree of Alex\rquote 
s belief, and identifying part-whole structure in line with the semantics of quantity adverbs (Lahiri 2000, 2002), the whole at issue in (1B) is the propositional content of the body of Alex\rquote 
s beliefs about the university, while the part at issue is the propositional content of the subordinate clause. This yields a mass quantifying interpretation of (1B) as asserting that the greater part of Alex\rquote 
s beliefs about the university can be characterized by the proposition that it has gone too far in adopting the corporate management model. In a parallel example with a nominal complement of the verb, as in (1B\rquote ), }{\i mostly}{
 can quantify over degrees of Alex\rquote s belief, but (1B\rquote ) does not assert that the propositional content of Alex\rquote 
s beliefs about the university consists mostly of the proposition denoted by the direct object. Thus, propositions and facts introduced by clauses, but not ones introduced by nominals, can serve as the part in a part-whole st
ructure supporting a mass-quantifier interpretation of the quantity adverb.
\par }\pard\plain \s31\ri86\widctlpar\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\tx2340\tx2520\tx2700\tx2880\adjustright \cgrid {\tab \tab It can be shown that the semantic type }{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 225 \\f "Symbol"
 \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{s, t}{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 241 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{ for clausally introduced propositions and facts yields unsatisfactory explanations both for their coordination as a singular sum, an
d for quantification over their domains by quantity adverbs. However, satisfactory accounts of these facts are obtained if these entities are type raised to type }{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 225 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}{\field{\*\fldinst 
SYMBOL 225 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{s, t}{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 241 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{, t}{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 241 \\f "Symbol" \\s 12}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24}}}{
 when they are introduced by a clause. The higher type permits a strictly Boolean i
nterpretation of coordination, but one with the effects of proposals for non-Boolean coordination as a singular sum. Furthermore, it yields a realistic account of the quantity adverb interpretation of (1B), and provides a basis for an explanation of the r
elative inaccessibility to anaphoric reference of clausally introduced propositions and facts.
\par }\pard\plain \ri86\widctlpar\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\adjustright \cgrid {\tab \tab 
Events do not uniformly exhibit any of these patterns. They are available to immediate anaphoric reference with a personal pronoun, they do not generally coordi
nate as a singular sum, and they do not generally permit the mass-quantifier interpretation of a quantity adverb. This does not mean that no events ever exhibit these properties (some do; see below), but it indicates that events do not participate in thes
e
 properties generally, merely by virtue of their semantic type, as propositions and facts do. According to these diagnostics, events are of type e, the type of singular individuals. As a result, they are not guaranteed to exhibit any of the properties dis
cussed above. When they do, it is a consequence of the particular kind of singular individual they are, not a general result of their semantic type. 
\par \tab \tab This supports Davidsonian and neo-Davidsonian analyses positing interpretive procedures which automatical
ly introduce a first-order variable for the event or state described by a clause, as discussed by Higginbotham (1985, 1989, 2000), Parsons (1991), and others. However, the above considerations do not support the view that the first-order events in Davidso
n
ian semantics must be primitives, or that they are necessarily simplex. Instead, we find that events do participate in the semantic behaviors noted above, but only when, as singular individuals, they have the right sort of structure to do so. For example,
 event-denoting clauses do not generally coordinate as a singular sum (2), but they do when the events denoted by the conjoined clauses have a tight causal and temporal relationship, in (3).
\par }\pard\plain \s31\ri86\widctlpar\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\tx2340\tx2520\tx2700\tx2880\adjustright \cgrid {(2)\tab \tab Tom broke a vase in the lobby, and Sam insulted the doorman. These / #this happened 

\par \tab \tab on the last day of their stay
\par (3)\tab \tab John tripped on the rug and knocked over a priceless vase. This / it happened at noon.
\par Turning to quantity adverb quantification, in (4) below, answer (a.) introduces a singular achievement, and 
can be interpreted as asserting that this event was the most important event which transpired in the circumstances, but not that it made up the bulk of what transpired. Answer (b.) introduces a set of events which can be regarded as making up most of what
 
happened in the room between 4:00 and 4:05, but that is just quantification over a set. The answer in (c.) seems to offer an activity for the scope of the quantity adverb on its mass-quantifier interpretation, but on closer inspection, the adverb in (c.) 
quantifies over time expended on the activity of running about the room, or over iterations of a sub-event of an accomplishment of running about the room.
\par (4)\tab \tab Detective:\tab What happened in this room between 4:00 pm and 4:05 pm?
\par \tab \tab Witness:\tab \tab a.\tab \tab Mostly, Max spilled his martini on the ambassador.
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab b.\tab Mostly, children ran about the room.
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab c.\tab \tab Mostly, Johnny ran about the room.
\par Thus, events referred to by clauses, like singular individuals referred to by nominals, do not generally enter into mass-like part-whole structures supporting the mass quantifier interpretation of quantity adverbs, as propositions and facts do.
\par }\pard\plain \ri86\widctlpar\tx360\tx540\tx720\tx900\tx1080\tx1260\tx1440\tx1620\tx1800\tx1980\tx2160\adjustright \cgrid {\tab \tab 
These points count against proposals that the domain of events has a general (mass-like) algebraic structure, whether a Boolean algeb
ra, a join semilattice, or other generalized part-of structure, and suggest instead that each type of event be analyzed in its own right. 
\par }}